.\" Copyright (c) 1999-2009 Massachusetts Institute of Technology
.\" 
.\" Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining
.\" a copy of this software and associated documentation files (the
.\" "Software"), to deal in the Software without restriction, including
.\" without limitation the rights to use, copy, modify, merge, publish,
.\" distribute, sublicense, and/or sell copies of the Software, and to
.\" permit persons to whom the Software is furnished to do so, subject to
.\" the following conditions:
.\" 
.\" The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be
.\" included in all copies or substantial portions of the Software.
.\" 
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND,
.\" EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF
.\" MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT.
.\" IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY
.\" CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT,
.\" TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE
.\" SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.
.\"
.TH H5FROMH4 1 "March 9, 2002" "h5utils" "h5utils"
.SH NAME
h5fromh4 \- convert HDF4 scientific datasets to an HDF5 file
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B h5fromh4
[\fIOPTION\fR]... [\fIHDF4FILE\fR]...
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.\" Add any additional description here
h5fromh4 takes one or more files in HDF4 format and outputs files in
HDF5 format containing the datasets from the HDF4 files.  (Currently,
only a single dataset per HDF4 file is converted.)

HDF4 and HDF5 are free, portable binary formats and supporting libraries
developed by the National Center for Supercomputing Applications at
the University of Illinois in Urbana-Champaign.

A single
.I h5
file can contain multiple data sets; by default,
.I h5fromh4
creates a dataset called "data", but this can be changed via the
.B -d
option, or by using the syntax \fIHDF5FILE:DATASET\fR with the
.B -o
option.  The
.B -a
option can be used to append new datasets to an existing HDF5 file.
If the
.B -o
option is used and multiple HDF4 files are specified, all the HDF4
datasets are output into that HDF5 file with the input filenames
(minus the ".hdf" suffix) used as the dataset names.

The most basic usage is something like \'h5fromh4 foo.hdf\', which
will output a file foo.h5 containing the scientific dataset from
foo.hdf.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B -h
Display help on the command-line options and usage.
.TP
.B -V
Print the version number and copyright info for h5fromh4.
.TP
.B -v
Verbose output.
.TP
.B -a
If the HDF5 output file already exists, append the data as a new
dataset rather than overwriting the file (the default behavior).  An
existing dataset of the same name within the file is overwritten,
however.
.TP
\fB\-o\fR \fIfile\fR
Send HDF5 output to
.I file
rather than to the input filename with .hdf replaced with .h5 (the
default).  If multiple input files were specified, this causes all
input datasets to be stored in
.I file
(rather than in separate files), with the input filenames (minus the .hdf
suffix) as the dataset names.
.TP
\fB\-d\fR \fIname\fR
Write to dataset
.I name
in the output; otherwise, the output dataset is called "data" by default.
Alternatively, use the syntax \fIHDF5FILE:DATASET\fR with the
.B -o
option.
.SH BUGS
Send bug reports to S. G. Johnson, stevenj@alum.mit.edu.
.SH AUTHORS
Written by Steven G. Johnson.  Copyright (c) 2005 by the Massachusetts
Institute of Technology.
